
General notes
*************************

    The qexpressvpn program is a simple Qt GUI driver for the ExpressVPN 
Linux client, expressvpn.  It allows you to connect to, and disconnect from, 
ExpressVPN servers around the world.

    Just one thing before you get into the code - I've never claimed to be a 
C++ programmer.  Most of what I know I got from the Qt examples.  I've been 
programming for a living since 1978 and I've made the transition from FORTRAN 
to C++ via BASIC, COBOL, Pascal, C, Java, a couple of assembly languages, and 
some other esoteric stuff.  If you think my code looks archaic, there's a good 
reason for that... I'm old ;-)


Installing on Linux
*************************

    On Linux you'll, obviously, need the gcc compiler.  It's usually just 
called gcc in whatever tool you use to acquire software.  In Ubuntu you can 
just type "gcc" on the command line then press Enter.  If you don't have it 
installed you will be instructed how to install it.

    You will also need to install the Qt development packages.  You can use 
either Qt4 or Qt5.  As an example of what you are looking for, on Ubuntu 16.04 
the Qt5 development package is called qt5-default.  On some older distributions 
you should look for something like libqt5-dev.  Whichever package you install, 
you need to make sure that the qmake executable for that package is in your 
PATH.

    I'm using Qt's qmake program to create the Qt .pro file and the Makefile.  
To make it really simple I've made a script that is designed to be run in the 
bash shell.  The script is called "mk".  The mk script runs qmake to create the 
qexpressvpn.pro file.  After creating the .pro file the mk script runs qmake 
again to create the Makefile.  It will then compile and link the code.  This 
creates an executable file called qexpressvpn in the source directory.  To run 
mk, simply open a console (or konsole if you will), cd to the directory 
containing the source code, then enter:

    ./mk

If you want to have the executable moved to somewhere in the system PATH you 
can do something like this instead:

    sudo ./mk /usr/local/bin

that will put the qexpressvpn executable in /usr/local/bin (which is probably 
in your PATH).


Translations
*************************

    I have included a Spanish translation for qexpressvpn but it was done with 
Google Translate so it's probably a bit off.  It would be nice if someone who 
speaks Spanish would fix it.  The way to do that is to use Qt's "linguist" 
program.  Just run

    linguist qexpressvpn_es.ts

to open the translation file, then correct the errors, save it, then "Release 
As..." resources/qexpressvpn_es.qm.

    To add a new translation (e.g. French) you can run ./mk to generate the 
qexpressvpn.pro file then edit qexpressvpn.pro and add the new translation to 
the TRANSLATIONS line.  For example, like this:

    TRANSLATIONS += qexpressvpn_es.ts qexpressvpn_fr.ts

then run

    lupdate qexpressvpn.pro

to generate the boilerplate qexpressvpn_fr.ts file.  Once that is done you need 
to run linguist on that file and add the translations.  When that is complete, 
save it and release it as resources/qexpressvpn_fr.ts.  When that is complete 
you need to edit the resources.qrc file and add the qm file to the list of 
resources.  Just look at the line for qexpressvpn_es.qm to see how that's done.
